# FN-DSA (in C)

FN-DSA is a new *upcoming* post-quantum signature scheme, currently
being defined by NIST as part of their [Post-Quantum Cryptography
Standardization](https://csrc.nist.gov/pqc-standardization) project.
FN-DSA is based on the [Falcon](https://falcon-sign.info/) scheme.

**WARNING:** As this file is being written, no FN-DSA draft has been
published yet, and therefore what is implemented here is *not* the
"real" FN-DSA; such a thing does not exist yet. When FN-DSA gets
published (presumably as a draft first, but ultimately as a "final"
standard), this implementation will be adjusted accordingly.
Correspondingly, it is expected that **backward compatiblity will NOT be
maintained**, i.e. that keys and signatures obtained with this code may
cease to be accepted by ulterior versions. Only version 1.0 will provide
such stability, and it will be published only after publication of the
final FN-DSA standard.

This implementation is the C variant of the [Rust
implementation](https://github.com/pornin/rust-fn-dsa/). It is
interoperable (indeed, it reproduces the same test vectors) and mostly
has feature parity and similar performance, with the following notes:

  - The C code's external API is in [fndsa.h](fndsa.h). This is the
    only file that application code needs to include.

  - The files `codec.c`, `mq.c`, `sha3.c`, `sysrng.c` and `util.c` are
    used for all operations. The files `kgen*.c` are used only for key
    pair generation. They can be omitted if not generating key pairs.
    Similary, the `sign*.c` files are only for signature generation, and
    `vrfy.c` is used only for signature verification. Typically, an
    application that only needs to verify signatures can avoid the code
    footprint cost of including the "kgen" and "sign" files.

  - The `speed_fndsa.c` and `test*.c` files are only for benchmarks and
    tests.

  - The API works only with keys in their encoded formats. Contrary to
    the Rust code, there is no "state" object that can be built and
    store reusable values across subsequent operations. Temporary
    buffers are normally allocated from the stack, but they can also be
    provided externally for builds targeting small embedded systems with
    shallow stacks.

  - When random bytes are needed, the operating system's RNG is invoked.
    This supports Windows and Unix-like systems (including Linux and macOS).
    For unsupported systems (including bare metal OS-less systems), the
    API has the option for the caller to provide a seed on which to work.
    It is then up to the caller to provide an adequately-sized seed with
    enough entropy (in general, aim for at least 256 bits of entropy).

For build options, see the [Makefile](Makefile). In general, the code
should work fine without needing much fiddling.

## ARM Cortex-M4

The implementation includes some assembly routines (some inline, and
some in separate assembly source files) which offer substantial
speed-ups, especially for signature generation, when running the code on
an ARM Cortex-M4F CPU. See [Makefile.cm4](Makefile.cm4) for compiling
that code with a cross-compiling system toolchain. Alternatively, see
the [bench_cm4/](bench_cm4) subdirectory for a benchmarking application
that can run on an STM32F407G-DISC1 board (using an STM32F4
microcontroller).
